docs/parameters.md, before:

# plant-food-research-open/genepal pipeline parameters

A Nextflow pipeline for consensus, phased and pan-genome annotation.

## Input/output options

| Parameter                 | Description                                                                                              | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `input`                   | Target assemblies listed in a CSV sheet                                                                  | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `protein_evidence`        | Protein evidence provided as a fasta file or multiple fasta files listed in a plain txt file             | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `eggnogmapper_db_dir`     | Eggnogmapper database directory                                                                          | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_tax_scope`  | Eggnogmapper taxonomy scopre. Eukaryota: 2759, Viridiplantae: 33090, Archaea: 2157, Bacteria: 2, root: 1 | `integer` | 1       |          |        |
| `rna_evidence`            | FASTQ/BAM samples listed in a CSV sheet                                                                  | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `liftoff_annotations`     | Reference annotations listed in a CSV sheet                                                              | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `orthofinder_annotations` | Additional annotations for orthology listed in a CSV sheet                                               | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `outdir`                  | The output directory where the results will be saved                                                     | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `email`                   | Email address for completion summary.                                                                    | `string`  |         |          | True   |

## Repeat annotation options

| Parameter                   | Description                                | Type      | Default       | Required | Hidden |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `repeat_annotator`          | 'edta' or 'repeatmodeler'                  | `string`  | repeatmodeler |          |        |
| `save_annotated_te_lib`     | Save annotated TE library or not?          | `boolean` |               |          |        |
| `edta_is_sensitive`         | Use '--sensitive 1' flag with EDTA or not? | `boolean` |               |          |        |
| `repeatmasker_save_outputs` | Save the repeat-masked genome or not?      | `boolean` |               |          |        |

## RNASeq pre-processing options

| Parameter                | Description                                                        | Type      | Default                                   | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `fastqc_skip`            | Skip FASTQC or not?                                                | `boolean` | True                                      |          |        |
| `fastp_skip`             | Skip trimming by FASTQP or not?                                    | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `min_trimmed_reads`      | Exclude a sample if its reads after trimming are below this number | `integer` | 10000                                     |          |        |
| `fastp_extra_args`       | Extra FASTP arguments                                              | `string`  |                                           |          |        |
| `save_trimmed`           | Save FASTQ files after trimming or not?                            | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `remove_ribo_rna`        | Remove Ribosomal RNA or not?                                       | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `save_non_ribo_reads`    | Save FASTQ files after Ribosomal RNA removal or not?               | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `ribo_database_manifest` | Ribosomal RNA fastas listed in a text sheet                        | `string`  | ${projectDir}/assets/rrna-db-defaults.txt |          |        |

## RNASeq alignment options

| Parameter                | Description                                       | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `star_max_intron_length` | Maximum intron length for STAR alignment          | `integer` | 16000   |          |        |
| `star_align_extra_args`  | EXTRA arguments for STAR                          | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `star_save_outputs`      | Save BAM files from STAR or not?                  | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `save_cat_bam`           | SAVE a concatenated BAM file per assembly or not? | `boolean` |         |          |        |

## Annotation options

| Parameter             | Description                                                                       | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `braker_extra_args`   | Extra arguments for BRAKER                                                        | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `liftoff_coverage`    | Liftoff coverage parameter                                                        | `number`  | 0.9     |          |        |
| `liftoff_identity`    | Liftoff identity parameter                                                        | `number`  | 0.9     |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_evalue` | Only report alignments below or equal the e-value threshold                       | `number`  | 1e-05   |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_pident` | Only report alignments above or equal to the given percentage of identity (0-100) | `integer` | 35      |          |        |

## Post-annotation filtering options

| Parameter                     | Description                                                                                                                                                     | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `allow_isoforms`              | Allow multiple isoforms for gene models                                                                                                                         | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `enforce_full_intron_support` | Require every model to have external evidence for all its introns                                                                                               | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `filter_liftoff_by_hints`     | Use BRAKER hints to filter Liftoff models                                                                                                                       | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_purge_nohits`   | Purge transcripts which do not have a hit against eggnog                                                                                                        | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `filter_genes_by_aa_length`   | Filter genes with open reading frames shorter than the specified number of amino acids excluding the stop codon. If set to `null`, this filter step is skipped. | `integer` | 24      |          |        |

## Annotation output options

| Parameter                             | Description                                                        | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `braker_save_outputs`                 | Save BRAKER files                                                  | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `add_attrs_to_proteins_cds_fastas`    | Add gff attributes to proteins/cDNA/CDS fasta                      | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `append_genome_prefix_to_feature_ids` | Add genome prefix to all the features in the final Gff/Fasta files | `boolean` | True    |          |        |

## Evaluation options

| Parameter                | Description                                                                 | Type      | Default         | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `busco_skip`             | Skip evaluation by BUSCO                                                    | `boolean` |                 |          |        |
| `busco_lineage_datasets` | BUSCO lineages as a space-separated list: 'fungi_odb10 microsporidia_odb10' | `string`  | eukaryota_odb10 |          |        |

## Institutional config options

Parameters used to describe centralised config profiles. These should not be edited.

| Parameter                    | Description                               | Type     | Default                                                  | Required | Hidden |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `custom_config_version`      | Git commit id for Institutional configs.  | `string` | master                                                   |          | True   |
| `custom_config_base`         | Base directory for Institutional configs. | `string` | https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nf-core/configs/master |          | True   |
| `config_profile_name`        | Institutional config name.                | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_description` | Institutional config description.         | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_contact`     | Institutional config contact information. | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_url`         | Institutional config URL link.            | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |

## Generic options

Less common options for the pipeline, typically set in a config file.

| Parameter                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                            | Type      | Default                                                  | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `version`                      | Display version and exit.                                                                                                                                                              | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `publish_dir_mode`             | Method used to save pipeline results to output directory.                                                                                                                              | `string`  | copy                                                     |          | True   |
| `email_on_fail`                | Email address for completion summary, only when pipeline fails.                                                                                                                        | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |
| `plaintext_email`              | Send plain-text email instead of HTML.                                                                                                                                                 | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `max_multiqc_email_size`       | File size limit when attaching MultiQC reports to summary emails.                                                                                                                      | `string`  | 25.MB                                                    |          | True   |
| `monochrome_logs`              | Do not use coloured log outputs.                                                                                                                                                       | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `hook_url`                     | Incoming hook URL for messaging service <details><summary>Help</summary><small>Incoming hook URL for messaging service. Currently, MS Teams and Slack are supported.</small></details> | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |
| `validate_params`              | Boolean whether to validate parameters against the schema at runtime                                                                                                                   | `boolean` | True                                                     |          | True   |
| `pipelines_testdata_base_path` | Base URL or local path to location of pipeline test dataset files                                                                                                                      | `string`  | https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nf-core/test-datasets/ |          | True   |
| `trace_report_suffix`          | Suffix to add to the trace report filename. Default is the date and time in the format yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss.                                                                            | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |

Commit message:

feat: Add seqkit-based contig length filtering
- Add min_contig_length parameter with validation
- Add seqkit-based contig filtering process
- Update schema and documentation
- Update pipeline version to 0.7.1

docs/parameters.md, after:

# plant-food-research-open/genepal pipeline parameters

A Nextflow pipeline for consensus, phased and pan-genome annotation.

## Input/output options

| Parameter                 | Description                                                                                              | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `input`                   | Target assemblies listed in a CSV sheet                                                                  | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `protein_evidence`        | Protein evidence provided as a fasta file or multiple fasta files listed in a plain txt file             | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `eggnogmapper_db_dir`     | Eggnogmapper database directory                                                                          | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_tax_scope`  | Eggnogmapper taxonomy scopre. Eukaryota: 2759, Viridiplantae: 33090, Archaea: 2157, Bacteria: 2, root: 1 | `integer` | 1       |          |        |
| `min_contig_length`       | Minimum length for contigs to be included in annotation                                                  | `integer` | 0       |          |        |
| `rna_evidence`            | FASTQ/BAM samples listed in a CSV sheet                                                                  | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `liftoff_annotations`     | Reference annotations listed in a CSV sheet                                                              | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `orthofinder_annotations` | Additional annotations for orthology listed in a CSV sheet                                               | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `outdir`                  | The output directory where the results will be saved                                                     | `string`  |         | True     |        |
| `email`                   | Email address for completion summary.                                                                    | `string`  |         |          | True   |

## Repeat annotation options

| Parameter                   | Description                                | Type      | Default       | Required | Hidden |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `repeat_annotator`          | 'edta' or 'repeatmodeler'                  | `string`  | repeatmodeler |          |        |
| `save_annotated_te_lib`     | Save annotated TE library or not?          | `boolean` |               |          |        |
| `edta_is_sensitive`         | Use '--sensitive 1' flag with EDTA or not? | `boolean` |               |          |        |
| `repeatmasker_save_outputs` | Save the repeat-masked genome or not?      | `boolean` |               |          |        |

## RNASeq pre-processing options

| Parameter                | Description                                                        | Type      | Default                                   | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `fastqc_skip`            | Skip FASTQC or not?                                                | `boolean` | True                                      |          |        |
| `fastp_skip`             | Skip trimming by FASTQP or not?                                    | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `min_trimmed_reads`      | Exclude a sample if its reads after trimming are below this number | `integer` | 10000                                     |          |        |
| `fastp_extra_args`       | Extra FASTP arguments                                              | `string`  |                                           |          |        |
| `save_trimmed`           | Save FASTQ files after trimming or not?                            | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `remove_ribo_rna`        | Remove Ribosomal RNA or not?                                       | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `save_non_ribo_reads`    | Save FASTQ files after Ribosomal RNA removal or not?               | `boolean` |                                           |          |        |
| `ribo_database_manifest` | Ribosomal RNA fastas listed in a text sheet                        | `string`  | ${projectDir}/assets/rrna-db-defaults.txt |          |        |

## RNASeq alignment options

| Parameter                | Description                                       | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `star_max_intron_length` | Maximum intron length for STAR alignment          | `integer` | 16000   |          |        |
| `star_align_extra_args`  | EXTRA arguments for STAR                          | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `star_save_outputs`      | Save BAM files from STAR or not?                  | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `save_cat_bam`           | SAVE a concatenated BAM file per assembly or not? | `boolean` |         |          |        |

## Annotation options

| Parameter             | Description                                                                       | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `braker_extra_args`   | Extra arguments for BRAKER                                                        | `string`  |         |          |        |
| `liftoff_coverage`    | Liftoff coverage parameter                                                        | `number`  | 0.9     |          |        |
| `liftoff_identity`    | Liftoff identity parameter                                                        | `number`  | 0.9     |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_evalue` | Only report alignments below or equal the e-value threshold                       | `number`  | 1e-05   |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_pident` | Only report alignments above or equal to the given percentage of identity (0-100) | `integer` | 35      |          |        |

## Post-annotation filtering options

| Parameter                     | Description                                                                                                                                                     | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `allow_isoforms`              | Allow multiple isoforms for gene models                                                                                                                         | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `enforce_full_intron_support` | Require every model to have external evidence for all its introns                                                                                               | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `filter_liftoff_by_hints`     | Use BRAKER hints to filter Liftoff models                                                                                                                       | `boolean` | True    |          |        |
| `eggnogmapper_purge_nohits`   | Purge transcripts which do not have a hit against eggnog                                                                                                        | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `filter_genes_by_aa_length`   | Filter genes with open reading frames shorter than the specified number of amino acids excluding the stop codon. If set to `null`, this filter step is skipped. | `integer` | 24      |          |        |

## Annotation output options

| Parameter                             | Description                                                        | Type      | Default | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------- | -------- | ------ |
| `braker_save_outputs`                 | Save BRAKER files                                                  | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `add_attrs_to_proteins_cds_fastas`    | Add gff attributes to proteins/cDNA/CDS fasta                      | `boolean` |         |          |        |
| `append_genome_prefix_to_feature_ids` | Add genome prefix to all the features in the final Gff/Fasta files | `boolean` | True    |          |        |

## Evaluation options

| Parameter                | Description                                                                 | Type      | Default         | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `busco_skip`             | Skip evaluation by BUSCO                                                    | `boolean` |                 |          |        |
| `busco_lineage_datasets` | BUSCO lineages as a space-separated list: 'fungi_odb10 microsporidia_odb10' | `string`  | eukaryota_odb10 |          |        |

## Institutional config options

Parameters used to describe centralised config profiles. These should not be edited.

| Parameter                    | Description                               | Type     | Default                                                  | Required | Hidden |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `custom_config_version`      | Git commit id for Institutional configs.  | `string` | master                                                   |          | True   |
| `custom_config_base`         | Base directory for Institutional configs. | `string` | https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nf-core/configs/master |          | True   |
| `config_profile_name`        | Institutional config name.                | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_description` | Institutional config description.         | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_contact`     | Institutional config contact information. | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `config_profile_url`         | Institutional config URL link.            | `string` |                                                          |          | True   |

## Generic options

Less common options for the pipeline, typically set in a config file.

| Parameter                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                            | Type      | Default                                                  | Required | Hidden |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ |
| `version`                      | Display version and exit.                                                                                                                                                              | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `publish_dir_mode`             | Method used to save pipeline results to output directory.                                                                                                                              | `string`  | copy                                                     |          | True   |
| `email_on_fail`                | Email address for completion summary, only when pipeline fails.                                                                                                                        | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |
| `plaintext_email`              | Send plain-text email instead of HTML.                                                                                                                                                 | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `max_multiqc_email_size`       | File size limit when attaching MultiQC reports to summary emails.                                                                                                                      | `string`  | 25.MB                                                    |          | True   |
| `monochrome_logs`              | Do not use coloured log outputs.                                                                                                                                                       | `boolean` |                                                          |          | True   |
| `hook_url`                     | Incoming hook URL for messaging service <details><summary>Help</summary><small>Incoming hook URL for messaging service. Currently, MS Teams and Slack are supported.</small></details> | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |
| `validate_params`              | Boolean whether to validate parameters against the schema at runtime                                                                                                                   | `boolean` | True                                                     |          | True   |
| `pipelines_testdata_base_path` | Base URL or local path to location of pipeline test dataset files                                                                                                                      | `string`  | https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nf-core/test-datasets/ |          | True   |
| `trace_report_suffix`          | Suffix to add to the trace report filename. Default is the date and time in the format yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss.                                                                            | `string`  |                                                          |          | True   |
